README.md, before:

# PDF Question Answering System

This application allows users to ask questions about a collection of PDF documents and receive answers with inline citations pointing back to the source material.

## Features

- Extracts and processes text from PDF files
- Chunks text into semantically meaningful segments
- Creates embeddings for efficient semantic search
- Retrieves relevant passages based on user questions
- Generates answers with citations to source documents
- Simple web interface for asking questions

## Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Set your OpenAI API key as an environment variable:
   ```
   export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key
   ```

### Streamlit Community Cloud deployment

- Do not commit secrets. This repo now ignores `.env` and `.streamlit/secrets.toml`.
- In Streamlit Cloud, set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in the app's Secrets (Advanced settings) or create a local `.streamlit/secrets.toml` during development.
  Example secrets:
  ```toml
  OPENAI_API_KEY = "your-api-key"
  THEO_REASONING_EFFORT = "medium"
  THEO_TEXT_VERBOSITY = "medium"
  # Recommended for public deployments (prevents cross-user conversation leakage):
  THEO_PERSIST_CONVERSATIONS = "0"
  ```

### Local development

- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in `OPENAI_API_KEY`.

## Security notes

- If an API key was ever committed to Git, treat it as compromised: rotate it in your OpenAI dashboard and rewrite Git history before publishing.
- By default, this app does not save conversations to disk. To enable local persistence, set `THEO_PERSIST_CONVERSATIONS=1`.

## Usage

1. Process your PDF files:
   ```
   python ingest.py
   ```
   This will scan the `./PDF Files` directory for PDFs, extract text, and save chunks to `chunks.pkl`.

2. Create embeddings and build search index:
   ```
   python embed.py
   ```
   This will generate embeddings for each text chunk and build a FAISS index.

3. Start the web application:
   ```
   python -m streamlit run app.py
   ```
   Then open your browser to the URL provided in the terminal.

4. Ask questions through the web interface or use the CLI:
   ```
   python ask.py
   ```

## Rebuilding the Index

If you add new PDFs or want to rebuild the index:
```
python ingest.py --rebuild
python embed.py --rebuild
```

## File Structure

- `ingest.py` - Processes PDF files into text chunks
- `embed.py` - Creates embeddings and builds search index
- `ask.py` - Handles question answering functionality
- `app.py` - Streamlit web interface
- `requirements.txt` - Required Python packages
- `chunks.pkl` - Processed text chunks (generated)
- `index.faiss` - FAISS vector index (generated)
- `citations.json` - Mapping for citation lookup (generated)

Commit message:

feat: support remote retrieval assets for Streamlit

README.md, after:

# PDF Question Answering System

This application allows users to ask questions about a collection of PDF documents and receive answers with inline citations pointing back to the source material.

## Features

- Extracts and processes text from PDF files
- Chunks text into semantically meaningful segments
- Creates embeddings for efficient semantic search
- Retrieves relevant passages based on user questions
- Generates answers with citations to source documents
- Simple web interface for asking questions

## Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Set your OpenAI API key as an environment variable:
   ```
   export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key
   ```

### Streamlit Community Cloud deployment

- Do not commit secrets. This repo now ignores `.env` and `.streamlit/secrets.toml`.
- In Streamlit Cloud, set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in the app's Secrets (Advanced settings) or create a local `.streamlit/secrets.toml` during development.
- This app also requires retrieval artifacts (`index.faiss` and `citations.json`). If you don't commit them to the repo, host them externally and provide a download URL via Secrets.
  Example secrets:
  ```toml
  OPENAI_API_KEY = "your-api-key"
  THEO_REASONING_EFFORT = "medium"
  THEO_TEXT_VERBOSITY = "medium"
  # Recommended for public deployments (prevents cross-user conversation leakage):
  THEO_PERSIST_CONVERSATIONS = "0"
  # Optional: auto-download retrieval artifacts from a zip containing `index.faiss` + `citations.json`:
  # THEO_ASSET_BUNDLE_URL = "https://host/path/theo_assets.zip"
  ```

### Local development

- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in `OPENAI_API_KEY`.

## Security notes

- If an API key was ever committed to Git, treat it as compromised: rotate it in your OpenAI dashboard and rewrite Git history before publishing.
- By default, this app does not save conversations to disk. To enable local persistence, set `THEO_PERSIST_CONVERSATIONS=1`.

## Usage

1. Process your PDF files:
   ```
   python ingest.py
   ```
   This will scan the `./PDF Files` directory for PDFs, extract text, and save chunks to `chunks.pkl`.

2. Create embeddings and build search index:
   ```
   python embed.py
   ```
   This will generate embeddings for each text chunk and build a FAISS index.

3. Start the web application:
   ```
   python -m streamlit run app.py
   ```
   Then open your browser to the URL provided in the terminal.

4. Ask questions through the web interface or use the CLI:
   ```
   python ask.py
   ```

## Rebuilding the Index

If you add new PDFs or want to rebuild the index:
```
python ingest.py --rebuild
python embed.py --rebuild
```

## File Structure

- `ingest.py` - Processes PDF files into text chunks
- `embed.py` - Creates embeddings and builds search index
- `ask.py` - Handles question answering functionality
- `app.py` - Streamlit web interface
- `requirements.txt` - Required Python packages
- `chunks.pkl` - Processed text chunks (generated)
- `index.faiss` - FAISS vector index (generated)
- `citations.json` - Mapping for citation lookup (generated)
